docs: Update how to work on guide articles (topics) on forum (#36735)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: docs/how-to-work-on-guide-topics.md

# How to work on Guide topics

> With your help, we can create a comprehensive reference tool that will help millions of people who are learning to code for years to come. Guide topics are located in [our forum](https://www.freecodecamp.org/forum/c/guide) under the `Guide` category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your help, we can create a comprehensive reference tool that will help millions of people who are learning to code, for years to come. Guide topics are located in [our forum](https://www.freecodecamp.org/forum/c/guide) under the `Guide` category.
```

You can [help us by Creating and Editing Guide Topics](#creating-and-editing-guide-topics).

## Creating and editing Guide topics

> Use the [forum search feature](https://www.freecodecamp.org/forum/search?expanded=true&q=%23guide) to find existing topics you want to [edit](#editing-an-existing-guide-topic) or to make sure a topic does not already exist for a [new topic](creating-a-new-guide-topic) you want to create. Whether editing or adding a new Guide topic, you should read about [styling best practices for Guide topics](#style-guide-for-creating-and-editing-guide-topics) to make your topic stand out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [forum search feature](https://www.freecodecamp.org/forum/search?expanded=true&q=%23guide) to find existing topics you want to [edit](#editing-an-existing-guide-topic) or to make sure the topic you want to create does not already exist. Whether editing or adding a new Guide topic, you should read about [styling best practices for Guide topics](#style-guide-for-creating-and-editing-guide-topics) to make your topic stand out.
```

### Editing an existing Guide topic

> The Guide Topics on the forum are wikis which can be edited by users.  Only users with Level 1 status can edit the wikis. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Guide topics on the forum are wikis which can be edited by users.  Only users with Level 1 status can edit the wikis. 
```

1. Click the `Edit` button located at the bottom right of the post an
2. Make your desired changes using the editor.
3. Click `Save Edit`.

### Creating a new Guide topic

> 1. Click the `+ New Topic` button at top of forum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the `+ New Topic` button at top of the forum.
```

2. Add a Topic Title.
3. Select `Guide` in the category dropdown.
3. Add your new content using the editor.
4. Click `+ Create Topic`.

### When do we edit or remove topics

> We may change or remove an topic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We may change or remove a topic
```

> We may change or remove a topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We may change or remove a topic:
```

> - if there is not a relevant title used in the topic title

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- if the topic title is not relevant
```

> - if there is zero/little effort in it (e.g: copy pasting from another source like Wikipedia)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- if there is zero/little effort in it (e.g: copy-pasting from another source like Wikipedia)
```

> - if there is copied text from a copyrighted source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- if it includes text copied from a copyrighted source
```

- if it does not respect the [Style guide for writing topics](#style-guide-for-creating-and-editing-guide-topics)
- if it does not respect the [Academic Honesty policy](https://www.freecodecamp.org/academic-honesty)
- if any of the content violates the [freeCodeCamp Code of Conduct](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/code-of-conduct)

> - if a new Guide topic wiki only contains links and not other relevant content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- if a new Guide topic wiki contains only links and no other relevant content
```

### Getting Help

There's a community of support from a whole team of contributors, whom you can bounce ideas off of and ask for input on your writing.

> Stay active in the [contributors chat room](https://gitter.im/freecodecamp/contributors) and ask lots of questions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stay active in the [contributors' chat room](https://gitter.im/freecodecamp/contributors) and ask lots of questions.
```

### Style guide for creating and editing Guide topics

> We recommend the following guidelines for writing Guide topics to help you get started contributing and to create helpful topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend the following guidelines for writing Guide topics to help you get started with contributing and creating helpful topics.
```

#### Title

> topic titles should be as short, concise, and as to-the-point as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Topic titles should be as short, concise, and to-the-point as possible.
```

We want campers to quickly find the information they're looking for, and the title should reflect the main theme of the topic.

#### Modularity

Each topic should explain exactly one concept, and that concept should be apparent from the topic's title.

We can reference other topics by linking to them inline, or in an "Other Resources" section at the end of the topic.

> Our goal is to have thousands of topics that cover a broad range of technical topics.

Reviewer: Possible redundant use of "topics", maybe something like this would work? 
```suggestion
Our goal is to have thousands of topics that cover a broad range of technical concepts.
```

#### Code Blocks

> Campers will likely use Guide topics as a quick reference to look up syntax. topics should have simple real-world examples that show common-use cases of that syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Campers will likely use Guide topics as a quick reference to look up syntax. Topics should have simple real-world examples that show common use-cases of that syntax.
```

> becomes
> `https://example.com/a-long/url/to-a-webpage/`

> #### List

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Lists
```

```

#### Images

> We do not recommend adding images to an topic unless absolutely necessary. Images hurt Web Accessibility, they are difficult to maintain and may get outdated. They are also slow to load on poor connections, thus, hurt web performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We do not recommend adding images to a topic unless necessary. Images hurt Web Accessibility, they are difficult to maintain and may get outdated. They are also slow to load on poor connections, thus, hurt web performance.
```

> For including images in an topic under compelling reasons, if they aren't already hosted somewhere else on the web, you will need to put them online yourself using a platform like [Imgur](https://imgur.com/) or [Flickr](https://www.flickr.com). You can also host images by committing them to a git repository and pushing it to GitHub. Then you can right-click the image and copy its URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For including images in a topic under compelling reasons, if they aren't already hosted somewhere else on the web, you will need to put them online yourself using a platform like [Imgur](https://imgur.com/) or [Flickr](https://www.flickr.com). You can also host images by committing them to a git repository and pushing it to GitHub. Then you can right-click the image and copy its URL.
```

> We don't allow hosting images directly in the git repository because it would make it far too big (people pulling it to their local system to make changes would end up downloading all the images), and because it is easier to change an image by just changing the URL in an topic than by putting the new image in the repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We don't allow hosting images directly in the git repository because it would make it far too big (people pulling it to their local system to make changes would end up downloading all the images), and because it is easier to change an image by just changing the URL in a topic than by putting the new image in the repository.
```

- [A New Resource](#link)
```

#### Formatting

Use double quotes where applicable.

> Format language keywords as code - this is done with the backtick key (located to the left of the "1" key on a US keyboard) in GitHub-flavored markdown. For example, put back ticks around HTML tag names or CSS property names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Format language keywords as code - this is done with the backtick key (located to the left of the "1" key on a US keyboard) in GitHub-flavored markdown. For example, put backticks around HTML tag names or CSS property names.
```

Use the Oxford Comma when possible (it is a comma used after the penultimate item in a list of three or more items, before ‘and’ or ‘or’ e.g. an Italian painter, sculptor, and architect). It makes things easier, clearer, and prettier to read.

#### Technical Writing

Technical writing, or the literature of science and technology, is hard.

You'll need to take a technical (usually abstract) topic and explain it in a clear, accurate, and objective manner.

You'll likely go through several rounds of proofreading and editing before you're happy with the result.

##### Outline

Before you begin writing, create an outline of the topic and think about any coding examples you'll use (if applicable).

This helps to organize your thoughts and make the writing process easier.

##### Intro

The introduction paragraph should only be 1-2 sentences long and be a simple explanation of the main topic. It should limit the use of any links to other Guide topics, as they can be distracting.

##### Content

Keep paragraphs short (around 1-4 sentences). People are more likely to read several short paragraphs over a wall of text.

##### Clarity

> topics should be written with short, clear sentences, and use as little jargon as necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Topics should be written in short, clear sentences, and use as little jargon as necessary.
```

All jargon should be defined immediately in plain English.

##### Voice

Use active voice instead of passive voice. Generally, it's a stronger and more straightforward way to communicate a subject. For example:

##### Passive

The `for` loop in JavaScript is used by programmers to...

##### Active

Programmers use the `for` loop in JavaScript to...

##### Point of View

> Text should use the second person ("you") to help to give it a conversational tone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The text should use the second person ("you") to help to give it a conversational tone.
```

Author: I think the "The" can be left off.

Reviewer 2: I suggest we add it.
What do you think @moT01 @ojeytonwilliams ?

Reviewer 3: It's marginal, but I prefer simply "Text" as it's being used to refer to text generally rather than a specific instance of it.

This way, the text and instructions seem to speak directly to the camper reading it.

Try to avoid using the first person ("I", "we", "let's", and "us").

##### Abbreviations

If you want to abbreviate a term in your topic, write it out fully first, then put the abbreviation in parentheses.

For example, `"In computer science, an abstract syntax tree (AST) is ..."`

##### Proper nouns

Proper nouns should use correct capitalization when possible. Below is a list of words as they should appear in Guide topics.

- JavaScript (capital letters in "J" and "S" and no abbreviations)
- Node.js

> Front-end development (an adjective form with a dash) is when you're working on the front end (noun form with no dash). The same goes for the back end, full stack, and many other compound terms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Front-end development (an adjective form with a dash) is when you're working on the front end (noun form with no dash). The same goes for the back end, full-stack, and many other compound terms.
```

You should aim for a grade level of 6.

Another tool available is the [De-Jargonizer](http://scienceandpublic.com/), originally designed for scientific communication but might help avoid overspecialized wording.

### Curriculum Challenge Hints and Solutions

> If you find a problem with an existing challenge's hints/solutions topic, you can make suggestions in the comments below the main wiki post.  Select moderators will review the comments and decide whether or not to include the changes into the existing topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you find a problem with an existing challenge's hints/solutions topic, you can make suggestions in the comments below the main wiki post.  Select moderators will review the comments and decide whether or not to include the changes in the existing topic.
```

#### Adding New Challenge Related Topics

Only moderators should add new hints and solutions topics when new challenges are added to the curriculum.  

Take the following steps when adding a new challenge hints/solutions related topic.

1. Start by following the same steps for [creating a new topic](creating-a-new-guide-topic) but review the next for creating the title.

> 2. The title of the topic should start with "freeCodeCamp Challenge Guide: " concatenated with actual title of the curriculum challenge. For example, if the challenge is named "Chunky Monkey", the topic title would be "freeCodeCamp Challenge Guide: Chunky Monkey".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The title of the topic should start with "freeCodeCamp Challenge Guide: " concatenated with the actual title of the curriculum challenge. For example, if the challenge is named "Chunky Monkey", the topic title would be "freeCodeCamp Challenge Guide: Chunky Monkey".
```

3. `camperbot` should be the owner of these topics/posts, so you will need to request an admin to change the ownership of the main post to `camperbot`.

> 4. Once the new topic is created, a forum topic id is created.  It is located at the end of the forum topic url.  This id must be added to the frontmatter of the curriculum challenge file via the normal pull request process for the `Get a Hint` button to link to the topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Once the new topic is created, a forum topic id is created.  It is located at the end of the forum topic URL.  This id must be added to the frontmatter of the curriculum challenge file via the normal pull request process for the `Get a Hint` button to link to the topic.
```
